[Merged by Bors] - Document service discovery (#145)
stackabletech/hive-operator: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/discovery.adoc

:clusterName: simple-hive-derby
:namespace: stackable

> :metastorePort: 9083

Reviewer: Can we use some more obvious placeholder names?

Author: like prefixing with `hive` or what do you suggest?

Reviewer: Using something like `$CLUSTERNAME` as the cluster name.

Reviewer: Looks like it works without generating extra warnings if I declare `:clusterName: \{clusterName\}` (and so on).

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if I'm following the discussion correctly here, is it about if the exapmle should be this:
```
apiVersion: hive.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: HiveCluster
metadata:
  name: {clusterName} # <1>
  namespace: {namespace} # <2>
spec:
...
```

vs this:

```
apiVersion: hive.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: HiveCluster
metadata:
  name: simple-hive # <1>
  namespace: default # <2>
spec:
  ...
```

Reviewer: Yeah, but mostly in the context of the discovery CMs, not the cluster definition itself.

Reviewer 2: So [here](https://github.com/stackabletech/hive-operator/pull/145/files#diff-b83490b212c5dfb5449c7b6df704ebe41c33ed4fe36223a1df2ad7399b968bb1R37) ?

Reviewer: Yep, and the URLs listed below that.

Author: Yeah if we use the abstract names we should adapt the examples of course as well. I like it explicit (and thats how it is in opa and kafka as well).

Reviewer: Err, the abstract version is explicit about where the values are coming from. The _concrete_ version only gives a weak implication about the relationship.

Reviewer 2: Can we do something like this as a compromise: 

> The resulting discovery ConfigMap follows the naming convention  `{namespace}/{clusterName}`, which for the example shown above would resolve to 'stackable/simple-hive-derby' ...

Author: I think Teo refers to the explicit names in the connection strings:
```
`HIVE`::
====
Contains the thrift protocol connection string for the Hive metastore:
[subs="attributes"]
  thrift://{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}-0.{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}.{namespace}.svc.cluster.local:{metastorePort}
```
should stay as is (without the replacements)

Reviewer 2: Ah! Sorry for being daft today (and others days as well I guess).

I think it is better with the abstract placeholders in there, yes. Same idea if we wanted to make it explicit: generate a concrete example on top of the abstract version, but if we have to pick one of the two I think it should be the abstract one.

:clusterName: \{clusterName\}
:namespace: \{namespace\}
:metastorePort: 9083
:roleGroup: \{roleGroup\}

= Discovery

The Stackable Operator for Apache Hive publishes a discovery https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#configmap-v1-core[`ConfigMap`], which exposes a client configuration bundle that allows access to the Apache Hive cluster.

> The bundle includes a thrift connection string to access the Hive metastore service. This string may be used by other operators or tools to configure their products with access to Hive. This is limited to internal cluster access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bundle includes an Apache Thrift connection string to access the Hive Metastore service. This string may be used by other operators or tools to configure their products with access to Hive. Access is limited to services within the same Kubernetes cluster.
```

== Example

Given the following Hive cluster:

[source,yaml,subs="normal,callouts"]
----
apiVersion: hive.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: HiveCluster
metadata:
  name: {clusterName} # <1>
  namespace: {namespace} # <2>
spec:
  metastore:
    roleGroups:
      default: # <3>
  [...]
----
<1> The name of the Hive cluster, which is also the name of the created discovery `ConfigMap`.
<2> The namespace of the discovery `ConfigMap`.
<3> A role group name of the metastore role.

The resulting discovery `ConfigMap` is `{namespace}/{clusterName}`.

== Contents

The `{namespace}/{clusterName}` discovery `ConfigMap` contains the following fields where `{clusterName}` represents the name, `{namespace}` the namespace of the cluster and `{roleGroup}` a role group of the `metastore` role:

`HIVE`::
====
Contains the thrift protocol connection string for the Hive metastore:

[subs="attributes"]
  thrift://{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}-0.{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}.{namespace}.svc.cluster.local:{metastorePort}

or

[subs="attributes"]
  thrift://{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}-0.{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}.{namespace}.svc.cluster.local:{metastorePort}

>   thrift://{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}-1.{clusterName}-metastore-{roleGroup}.{namespace}.svc.cluster.local:{metastorePort}

Reviewer: Raising this here anyway, but this is more of an implementation question that we might want to raise as a separate issue...

Is this format for failover actually supported by Hive/Thrift clients? What are the consequences here if running in HA mode without upstream support? (Stale caches, data corruption, ???) Depending on the answer here, _do we want to support this mode of operation_?

Author: We do not have HA. These would be completely separated metastore instances afaik (there fore no caches or data corruption). I thought about limiting the replicas to 1 already but never introduced that. 

So yeah i would not support that for now.
